# flappybird
 
# ali's part : setting up the unity project , changing camera aspect ratio to 9:16 , downloading sprites ( the game models, background, ground, bird ,pipes, play button , game over screen , score, best , Title) , making the bird's animations: copying the second frame then pasting it at the end , and 2nd frame to the end. adjusting the order in layer of bird to 1 and background to 0 so the bird can be in front and ground order to 2. Adding a box collider 2d to ground , and a rigidbodyd to bird so that if they touch, the bird actually collides and doesnt no clip through the ground. Then i added a fly behavior script to the bird , using a serializeField velocity so we can adjust it later to our liking. Also installing input system to be able to use the mouse  to make the bird jump by using the vector2.up which does the upwards velocity . This is all in the update function to update its position when clicking. Now we make a rotation SerializeField value to control the rotation based on the vector2(up). Also added the pipes and put them to an empty object , and gave them a box collider 2d  with a MovePipe script( angelo fixed this later) to make the pipes move to the left using a serialize field . Now we make the empty object that we attached these pipes to, a prefab, and we give it a PipeSpawner script   and modifiable values named Max time  and height range . In this script we can spawn the pipe at the position of the pipe Spawner game object +or - the random distance thats our height range , then we set it to destroy itself in 10 seconds so it frees up the scene hierarchy . 

# angelo's part: my laptop was not loading the origin and the pulls and it only showed pushes so it deleted anthony's part, this save is a backup, thats why im writing this on Ali's github account. My part included creating a GameOverCanvas , fixing the scale of it, and adding 3 images to it : Title , GameOve and PlayButton , then deactivating it from the game View to only show it when the bird dies. Then i created a GameManager empty game object and assigned a script to it called GameManager, with A serialized field object to be able to assign the canvas to the script , Then i created a GameOver function which turns on the Canvas and freezes the time to be able to accept the user input ( playing again) .After that we made a Restartgame function by loading the current scene . To restart the game we added the  play button and assigned the game manager script to the "on click event"  and called the RetartGame() function.


# anthony's part: first we start with making the ground move by making a loopground script in unity, we add a serializefield , that means that its a value that we could later change and modify to our liking, , in this case , the speed and width . we then adjust the size from the sprite renderer in the start void , then we update the size until it has reached its max width, then we reset it so it can be able to loop smoothly thats why we test it and we settle on 1.3 speed and 6 width units. 
# next we set up a scoring system by importing the flappy bird font : https://www.dafont.com/04b-19.font and by using textmeshpro.Then we position the "Score" and "Best" along with their values on the top of the screen. Then we make a Score c# script , using a serializeField called "_currentScoreText and _highScoreText . Then we use PlayerPrefs function  To score our highscore , then converting it to a string , we make an updateHighScore funcion to update the highscore if the score is higher  and we convert it to a string. and we add an updateScore function where we increase the score everytime we pass through a boxcollider 2d which tracks if the bird has gone between the pipes. And using a new PipeIncreaseScore script, it helps us update our score everytime the bird passes through.




# Source code is all from : https://youtu.be/hKGzSYXPQwY?si=28TbwbvDzcRNKRmx 

# sprites were from : https://www.spriters-resource.com/mobile/flappybird/sheet/59894/